- Roman, welcome back to Talk Python To Me.
- Hi, hi.
- Hey, so good to have you back on the show.
Yeah, you as well.
- Thank you. - How have you been?
- So it was a nice adventure for me,
like these two years of moving to other countries.
- Yeah, are you up for sharing that with people?
- What, you're up too? - Sorry?
- Are you up for sharing where you've moved to?
Last time we spoke, you were in Berlin, I believe.
- I was in Germany, and now I'm in Africa.
- Yeah, Nick Jetzt.
(Roman laughs)
- So completely different culture,
completely different continent.
- Yeah, are you enjoying your time there?
- Yeah, so I like it so much.
Honestly, I like Germany too.
So Germany's a great country, but I like different.
- But yeah, but you're probably looking forward
to not freezing cold winters.
- I want to try, honestly.
I don't know if I will like it or not,
but I want to try just a few years, for example.
- I moved to San Diego, California a long time ago,
and I didn't really enjoy the fact
that there was no winters and there was no fall.
It was just always nice, always.
Until one day I realized, you know what?
We just headed out mountain biking in the mountains,
and the weather was perfect, and it was February,
and we didn't even check if it was gonna rain or be nice,
'cause it's always nice.
You know what?
That's a good trade-off.
You could do a lot of cool stuff
when you live in a place like that.
So I'm glad to hear that.
You'll have to let us know how it goes.
And yeah, Beanie has been going really well as well, right?
So when we first spoke, Beanie was just kind of
a new project, and the thing that caught my eye about it
was two really cool aspects, asynchronous and Pydantic.
I'm like, oh, those things together,
plus MongoDB, sound pretty awesome.
And so it's been really fun to watch it grow
over the last two years,
and it's gaining quite a bit of popularity.
- Yeah, it's kind of, I don't know.
It's kind of popular, but not that much,
as Pydantic itself, as FastAPI.
But yeah, still popular in context of MongoDB, for sure.
- Sure, absolutely.
I think it's a little bit different
than a web framework, potentially, right?
Like, it's hard to say, you know,
is it as popular as FastAPI or Flask
or something like that, right?
Because those things, those are the contexts
in which this is used, but not everyone uses Mongo,
not everybody cares about AsyncMongo, all that, right?
There's a lot of filters down.
But I think you've done a really great job
shepherding this project.
I think you've been really responsive to people.
I know I've seen the issues coming back and forth.
I've seen lots of releases on it.
And I guess the biggest news is around,
yeah, welcome, I think the biggest news is around,
you know, when Pydantic 2 came out,
that kind of changed so many things.
I spoke to Sam McAlvin about his plan there.
I spoke to Sebastian Ramirez from FastAPI
about like what he was thinking and where that was going.
And it sounded like it was, you know,
not too much work for people using Pydantic,
but quite a bit of work for people like you
that was like deep inside of Pydantic, yeah?
- Yeah, so honestly, I have a Discord channel
for support Beanie users.
And there I was talking with other guys,
like probably, I'm sorry,
but probably I will not support both versions
in the same time.
Maybe I will have two different branches of Beanie
with v1 and v2 supporting.
But finally, I, yeah, I made it, you know,
to in a single branch.
And this was very challenging, honestly, because-
- Okay, interesting.
I didn't realize you were going backwards
on that maintainability there
for the people who didn't want to move to Pydantic too.
- There are, yeah, there are legacy stuff.
And I must support new features for Pydantic v1 also,
definitely, because it may be,
maybe people want to move to Pydantic v2,
but they could be stuck on other libraries
that support only v1, for example.
And it can go for a while, like months.
And even for me, it took like three weeks
to make it work, so.
- Yeah, yeah.
Well, just so people know,
talkpython.fm and pythonbytes.fm,
both of those are based on MongoDB and Beanie.
And when you came out with the new one,
I saw when the release for v2 came out,
I was like, all right, how long until Beanie supports this?
And I saw that you were right on top of it
and working on that, that was great.
And then when I went to upgrade it,
it was really easy, right?
Just, I used pip-tools and I used pip compile
to just get all the latest versions of the dependencies
and update the requirements.
So then I installed a new one and it wouldn't run
because there's, not because of anything that Beanie did,
but just some changes to Pydantic too.
For example, if I had a,
let's say there's a database field that was URL
and it was an optional string.
In Pydantic one, you could say,
URL colon optional bracket str, that's it.
But there's no default value explicitly set, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so in Pydantic two, that's not accepted, right?
It says, no, no, no, if you want it to be none by default,
you have to set it to be none explicitly.
So I had to go through and like find
all my database documents.
Basically anytime there's an optional something,
set it equal to none.
And then that was it, that was the upgrade process.
And now the website runs faster.
Thank you.
- Welcome.
Yeah, I implemented a middleware,
like a few classes and functions that just check
if you use Pydantic V1 or Pydantic V2.
And based on this, uses different kind of backends,
but interface is the same for both.
So I unified interface inside of Beanie.
- So before we get too far down this conversation,
give us two quick bits of background information here.
First of all, why MongoDB?
There's a lot of excitement around things like MySQL,
but especially Postgres, relational databases,
MongoDB's document database.
Give us the elevator pitch.
Why do you like to work with Mongo?
- Honestly, I like to work with all the databases.
I have become databases fan and nerd.
So I like them all.
But yeah, MongoDB is a document database
and it means the schema, the data scheme
is much more flexible than in SQL databases
because in SQL you use tables, plain tables,
while in MongoDB you can use, you use extra documents
which could be nested and the level of this nestedness
is, could be really, really high.
There are some trade-offs based on this.
The relation system for plain tables
would be implemented much simpler than for documents
because this flexi structure is hard to,
it's hard to make nice relations.
But I'd say it's much more useful for,
if you use nested data structures in your applications,
it's much simpler to keep this same data structure
in your database.
And this makes all the processes of development
much more easy and much more simple to understand it,
I'd say.
- Yeah.
Don't have the so-called object relational impedance
mismatch where it's like, well, you break it all apart
like this in the database and you reassemble it
into an object hierarchy over here
and then you do it again in the other way
and like all that stuff,
it's kind of just mirrored the same, right?
- Yeah, yeah, true.
And I really like MongoDB to make like small projects.
I mean, when I just want to play with something
and I play with data structures a lot
and using Postgres or MySQL,
I have to do a lot of migrations
because when I change the type of fields
or just number of fields, I have to do this stuff.
And this kind of annoying
because I just want to make fun and to play.
- Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
For me, it's easy to make MongoDB fast
and it's operationally almost trivial, right?
If I want to add a field to some collection,
I just add it to the class and start using it
and it just, it appears, it just shows up
and you want to add a nested object, you just add it
and it just, you don't have to keep running migrations
and having server downtime and all that.
It's just, it's glorious.
Okay, so that's the background
of people maybe haven't done anything with Mongo.
What about Beanie?
Why, what is Beanie really quick for people?
We talked about a bit,
but give us the quick rundown on Beanie
and why you built it.
Like there were other things
that talked to MongoDB and Python before.
- Yeah, yeah.
So there are a lot of tools.
There is Mongo engine, which is nice
and which is--
- Yeah, I like Mongo engine too.
- Yeah.
Yeah, but one day I was playing again with new technologies
and FastAPI was super new that time.
It was like, you know, it wasn't that famous at time,
like three years ago and already was super nice.
And I wanted to play with it
before I can use it in my production projects.
And I found that there is no nice,
let's say connector to MongoDB from FastAPI
because there is nothing that could support
and pedantic and asynchronous MongoDB driver motor.
And I decided like, but why?
I think I can implement it myself, why not?
And I made a very small, tiny ODM.
And then I even thought it would be tiny all the time.
Like, you know, it could support only models
of the documents.
It could insert them and all the operations
of MongoDB, it wasn't hidden inside of Beanie.
You had to use MQL, Mongo query language there, like plain.
And so I'm just to release this.
And somehow in one month it got not that popular
but people just came to me and like, I like what you did.
Could you please add this feature and that feature?
And this part works wrongly, so please fix this.
And I was like, whoa, whoa, I didn't know
but I made an open source product.
- Yeah, that's cool.
Some weird podcaster guy goes, this is great
except for where are the indexes?
- Yeah, this was like first, maybe second week
after I published it and yeah, you came to my,
to GitHub issues, could you add indexes?
And I was like, I forgot about indexes.
Yeah, I have to add them.
- Yeah, indexes are like database magic.
They're just awesome.
- Yeah, yeah, true.
So yeah, and this was kind of playground project
and now this is nice ODM for MongoDB.
- Yeah, I think it's good.
It's been really, really reliable
for all the work that we've been doing.
So good work on that.
Let's see, I guess there's two angles to go here.
Number one, if we go over the releases,
the big release is this 1.21.0
which says Pydantic V2 support.
So I wanna spend a lot of time talking to you
about like what was your experience going
from Pydantic one to two?
Because as you said, there's the really famous ones
like FastAPI and others, but there's many, many projects
out there that use Pydantic.
I wonder if we could get it to show it.
So, you know, GitHub has that feature
it shows used by 229,000 projects.
228,826 projects.
- Nearly all the projects use Pydantic now, right?
- Exactly, just on GitHub use Pydantic.
So, you know, many of them still haven't necessarily done
this work to move to two.
And so I wanna make that the focus of our conversation.
However, since we had a nice episode on BD before,
before we get into that aspect,
let's just do a catch up on like what's happened
with BD in the last two years.
What are some of the cool new features
and things that you wanna highlight for folks?
- Yeah, so I added a lot of features, honestly,
but there were a few really big.
I really like one.
I didn't know that it could be needed for anybody,
but I was continuously asked about this ad
and this, and I didn't want to it, but finally I added.
And now I love this so much.
This is called inheritance.
You can inherit documents.
So you can make a big inherited structure like car,
then yeah, vehicle, then from vehicle,
you can inherit bicycle, buy car,
and from car inherit something else.
And the thing is, everything will be stored
in the same collection, in the same MongoDB collection.
And if you want to make statistics over all the types,
you can do it.
And when you need to operate only with a type or subtype,
you can do it as well.
And you can choose what you want to do.
And I know this feature is used in productions.
Now in the many projects, and this is nice,
this kind of-
- Yeah, this is really cool.
So when I first heard about it, my first impression was,
okay, so instead of deriving from beanie.document,
you create some class that has some common features,
maybe properties and validation and stuff,
and then other documents can derive from it.
So like you said, bicycle versus car.
But in my mind, those would still go
into different collections, right?
They would go in different collections
and that would just be a simpler way to have the code
that would have a significant bit of reuse.
But the fact that they all go into the same collection
and the documents are kind of supersets of each other,
that's, I think that's pretty interesting.
- Yeah.
- I hadn't really thought about how to use that.
- You can do even two different, like you can,
if you want to count all the vehicles, you can do it
without making requests to each of the collections,
because everything is in the same collection.
And you can do this with different fields there as well.
And you can make aggregations over all of them
and even over cars separately.
So this is nice.
- Oh, interesting.
Does the record have something,
some kind of indicator of what-
- Yeah, inside there is-
- What class it is?
It's like, I'm a car class, I'm a bike class.
- Yeah, yeah, you can specify.
Originally it is called class name or something like this,
with underscore, but you can specify
which fields would work for this.
So we can specify the name of this field.
And in this field, I store,
it stores not only the name of the class,
but the structure itself.
Like for bus, it will keep vehicle, car, bus.
Yeah, so in this field.
- Okay.
- And that's why it will be able to,
even on the database level,
it will understand the hierarchy of this object.
- Right, and so if you wanna do data science-y things,
you could use the aggregation framework
to run a bunch of those types of queries on it, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
And it's better to do all this stuff on the database layer
because Python is not that fast with iterations.
While MongoDB is super fast.
- Yeah, and plus, you don't need necessarily
to pull all the data back,
just to read some field or whatever, right?
So yeah, that's really cool.
All right, this is not what I expected
when I first heard about it, but this is quite cool.
- Yeah, and first time I heard this, about this feature,
I was like, "Nobody wants this, why do you try it?"
But then I found how flexible this is getting to be.
And so yeah, this is nice.
- Yeah, I guess it, the reason I guess it's a surprise
to me is it leverages an aspect of MongoDB
that's in document databases in general
that are interesting, but that I don't find myself
using very much is in that you don't have to have,
there's not a real structured schema.
And a lot of people say that and kind of get a sense for it.
For me, that's always meant like,
"Well, the database doesn't control the schema,
"but my code does, and that's probably gonna be the same."
Right, so there's kind of an implicit static schema
at any given time that matches the code,
but you can do things like put different records
into the same collection.
I mean, you wouldn't do it just like,
"Well, here's a user and here's a blog post
"and just put them in the same collection."
That would be insane.
But there's, if you have this commonality
of this base class, I can see why you might do this.
It's interesting.
- Yeah, yeah, and in this context,
blog post or video post could be different by structure,
but could be stored in a single collection then.
- Mm-hmm, yeah, yeah, cool.
Okay, one other thing on the page here
that we could maybe talk about is link.
I wanna tell people about what link is.
- Yeah, MongoDB is non-relational database,
but you can force it to work with relations.
And there is a data type in MongoDB called db_ref,
db_reference, which is used to work
with this link type in Beanie.
So in Beanie, with this generic type link,
you can put inside of the link any document type,
and it can make relations based on this link.
So you can fetch linked documents
from another collections using just standard
find operations in Beanie.
Yeah, and there is kind of magic under the hood.
I use, instead of using find operations,
MongoDB find operations, I use aggregation framework
of MongoDB, but it is hidden under the hood of Beanie.
And so, yeah, and you can use relations then.
And the nice thing about new features,
because link already was implemented,
I think two years ago, but again,
was I don't come up with my own features, I think.
Every feature, somebody asked me for.
And I was asked for another feature
to make backtracking, back references for these links.
Like if you have a link from one document to another,
another document should be able to have,
to fetch this relation backwards.
And that's how-
- I see, so in this case, you've got an owner
which has a list of vehicles, but given a vehicle,
you would like to ask who is its owner, right?
- Yeah, true.
- Okay.
- And I implemented this, I named it backlinks,
backlink, and it can just fetch it in reverse direction.
- That's cool.
- And the nice thing about this is
it only uses the magic of aggregations
and it doesn't store anything for backlinks fields
in the collection itself.
Like in the MongoDB document,
you never will find this field for backlink
because everything you need is on the link.
And this is nice.
- Yeah, that is really cool.
In the queries, in the find statement,
you add fetch_link equals true,
and that's kind of like a join.
Is that how that works?
- Yeah, yeah.
When you-
- Like eager versus lazy loading type of thing?
- Yeah, when you find without this option,
by default it is false.
You will see in the link field,
you will see only link itself.
It will be link with ID inside of the object.
But if you put fetch, and you can fetch it manually,
like with method.fetch, it will work.
But when you put fetch_link true,
it will fetch it everything automatically
on the database layer.
And yeah, it will return all the link documents.
- Oh yeah, that's really cool.
Other one?
Lazy parsing.
I mean, we all wanna be lazy,
but what are we doing here?
What is this one?
- Yeah, so this is,
in some cases,
Beanie could be used for really high load projects.
And sometimes you need to fetch
like thousands of documents in a moment.
And the nature of Pydentic is synchronous,
not asynchronous,
because it uses CPU bound operations there.
And when you fetch hundreds of documents,
or even thousands of documents,
you completely block your system.
Because a lot of loops to parse data,
to validate data, and et cetera.
And if you use it in asynchronous framework,
this is not behavior that you like to have.
And to fix this problem-
- Maybe even in asynchronous framework,
it might be the behavior you don't wanna have as well.
- Yeah.
- Right, even then, yeah, yeah.
- This is true.
- But even in-
- Because for example, maybe-
Yeah, exactly.
But it's totally reasonable to think,
"Well, I'm gonna do a query against this document,
"and it's got some nested stuff."
Maybe it's a big sort of complex one,
but you really just want three fields in this case.
Now, you can use projections, right?
Like that is the purpose of projections,
but it limits the flexibility,
'cause you only have those fields that were projected.
And in different situations,
maybe you don't really know
what parts you're going to use, right?
And so this is a more-
Yeah, so this kind of lets the consumer of the query
use only what they need, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
And so when you use this lazy parsing,
Pydentic doesn't parse anything on the initial call.
Like you receive everything
and store everything in a raw format in dictionaries,
in Python dictionaries there.
And when you call any field of the document,
it just parses using Pydentic tools
to parse as Pydentic do it internally.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
- So is this lazy parse primarily implemented by Pydentic,
or is this something you've done on top of Pydentic?
- I implemented my own library for this.
Like it's on top of Pydentic for sure,
but it uses, in Pydentic there are tools
and different in V1 and V2,
the name of this tool is different,
but you can parse something into type,
not into base model, but just into type.
You can provide a type and the value to be parsed
into this type and you can parse it.
So I use this, and additionally I had to handle
with all the validator stacks
because this is a very important part of Pydentic
and you have to be able to validate things.
And with lazy parsing, if it sees that this is,
there are root validators,
then it will validate it against any field,
or if there is a field specific validator,
it will validate it against the field
if this field was called.
So yeah, I had to do some magic with Pydentic there.
But it, especially with Pydentic V1,
which was slower than V2, significantly slower,
it was very helpful for people who have to fetch
really big amounts of documents
and to not block their pipeline in this step.
So this is a nice feature also.
- Yeah, I think this is a really nice feature.
What is the, what's the harm?
And does it make certain things slower
if you're going to use every field or, you know,
why not just turn this on all the time, right?
That's my question.
- Yeah, if you, yes, for sure.
There are trade-offs.
If you will use this all the time,
it would be like around twice slower
than just Pydentic validation
if you will use all the fields.
If you will use just a few fields, it would be faster.
But I didn't turn it on by default
because in general case,
when people just want to fetch 10, maybe 20 documents
and use all the fields of them, it would be slower.
- Yeah, that makes sense.
That's kind of what I expected.
But if you've got a really complicated document
and you only use a few fields here and there,
then it seems like a real win,
but if you're gonna use everything anyway.
- And especially for Pydentic V2,
when all the validation happens on the Rust layer,
but here I cannot do this because I cannot, you know,
I cannot put the logic into the Rust layer
because there is no Rust layer for Bini.
And if you will fetch all the fields of the documents
using this lazy parsing,
everything will happen on the Python layer
instead of the Rust layer.
And it will be as slow as V1.
And so we will not see the benefits of V2.
- Okay, yeah.
I guess it's interesting even in the V1 version of Pydentic,
but now with Pydentic 2 being roughly 22 times faster,
that all of a sudden you wanna let Pydentic
do its thing if it can.
- Yeah, true.
- Yeah.
Speaking of Pydentic getting some speed up from Rust,
is any part of Bini some other runtime compilation story
than pure Python?
Is there like a Cython thing or a Numba or any of those?
- No, the thing about the speed of Bini is,
Bini is not about, so as Pydentic is very CPU bound,
all the stuff happens on the CPU layer.
While Bini uses mostly input/output operations
because it interacts with database.
And for this, just default, I think,
await pattern of Python uses works the best.
And all the time, if there are any delays,
it's most likely about this interaction process
between application and MongoDB.
It could be network, it could be just delay
from the query and et cetera, but not Bini
because Bini doesn't compute anything.
- Yeah, Bini doesn't do very much, I guess, right?
It coordinates motor, the asynchronous engine from MongoDB
and it coordinates Pydentic.
It kind of clicks those together using async and await
and a nice query API that you put together.
And so, right, it's more about letting motor be fast
and letting Pydentic be fast
and getting out of the way, I suppose.
- Yeah, this is true, this is true.
So yeah, Bini is mostly about making some magic
and convert Python syntax into MongoDB syntax.
- Using, yeah, thank you for that.
That's really nice.
It's super nice the way that the syntax works, right?
The fact that you're able to use native operators,
for example, right, to do the queries, I really like that.
- Yeah, I don't like when somebody uses this
in production applications, I mean, when,
because it's hard to find problems.
But when we are talking about libraries,
this is really nice when it supports Python syntax.
So that's why I decided to include it.
- People shouldn't get too crazy
with overloading their own operators.
But as an API, it's really good.
So for example, in this case, you have a sample document
and it has a number.
And so the query is sample.find
and then the argument is sample.number equal equal 10, right?
Which is exactly the way you would do it in an if statement.
You'll contrast that with other languages
or other frameworks such as Mongo engine,
which I used previously and is nice.
But you would say, you would say sample.find
and then just number_eq equals 10, right?
You're like, I know what that means,
but it's not speaking to me the same way
as if I was just doing a raw database query
or writing pure Python, right?
- Yeah, it sounds like you have to learn
another one of English, right?
- Exactly, you've got to,
like if you want to do a nested thing,
it's a double underscore,
you know, it'd be like number double underscore item
underscore eq equals 10.
You're like, oh my goodness.
So yeah, that's kind of tricky.
- Yeah, true, true, definitely true.
- Cool.
Okay, well, let's talk about this upgrading story
for the 229,000 other folks out there
who maybe haven't done this.
So a while ago, back in 2022,
almost exactly to the day a year ago,
I had Samuel Colvin on to talk about
the plan to move to Pydantic V2,
why he did it, it was really interesting.
So that's worth listening to if people want to learn more,
as well as I had Sebastian Ramirez
and Samuel Colvin on to talk about it live at PyCon
and that was fun too.
So if people want background on
like what is the story of Pydantic 2,
then check that out.
But the big announcement was on June 30th,
a couple months ago,
I guess that's a month and a half ago,
Pydantic V2 is here after just one year of hard work.
So that was a huge project for the Pydantic folks,
which they've done a great job on it.
And I guess the big takeaway really is
that Pydantic V2 is quite a bit faster.
Maybe you could speak to that.
And it's mostly, but not exactly the same
because as you already pointed out,
the core of it is rewritten in Rust for performance reasons.
- Yeah, yeah.
So I've made a load test.
It is much faster when you talk about validation
of the models itself,
especially when you validate
parse really nested and complicated models,
then it's much, much faster than Python,
than V1 implementation.
While with Beanie,
you still can see significant great performance upgrade,
but not that much because Beanie works with MongoDB
and there is this input output operation,
which is slow and which could not be upgraded
by just by decreasing processing time.
But yeah, when we are talking about simple documents,
it's not that visible, like 10, sometimes 20% faster.
But when we talk about nested documents,
when there are nested dictionaries
or nested lists of dictionaries,
then it's much, much, much faster.
In my load test, it is twice faster, V2 against V1.
And I was super impressed by this
because I was expecting this,
that it would not be that faster
than as pedantic V2 itself
because of this input output operation.
But yeah, this is crazy.
- Right, because it's not just the parsing
that Beanie does, right?
Beanie sends the message over to Mongo,
the network does some stuff,
Mongo does its thing, sends it back,
serialized as BSON,
and then it's got to deserialize into objects somehow.
And then the pedantic part kicks in, right?
And plus all the extra bits you've already talked about.
So it can only affect that part.
But I think it, your example here shows
standard computer science answer, it depends.
Is it faster? It depends.
I would guess the more complicated your document is,
the bigger bonus you get, which you've already said.
And the more documents you return.
So if I return one record from the database,
it's got five fields.
The amount of that processing that is pedantic is small.
But if I return a thousand records,
and there's all that serialization,
like the database has kind of done
more or less the same amount of work,
it's streamed the stuff back.
But when it gets to Python, it's like,
whoa, I've got a lot of stuff to validate in parse.
And I suspect that also matters
how many records are coming back.
- Yeah, that's why this affected this case
for lazy parsing that was implemented for V1.
And now it's not necessary for many cases,
only for very extreme high load.
- Yeah, okay.
Yeah, that's really cool.
So what makes me smile from this is,
the more pedantic you use,
the more awesome this upgrade to two becomes.
And it's like I said, it's almost no work.
Technically I had to set all the optionals to be none.
That's not a beanie thing, that's a pedantic thing,
but it's not a big deal.
So upgrading basically means all the parts of your frame,
all the frameworks you use
that are built on pedantic get faster.
So for me, when I upgraded the website,
it went about, I don't know, 40% faster
or something like that,
which is a huge speed up or very little work.
It's already really fast, right?
If you go to the podcast, you pull up an episode page,
it's like 30 milliseconds.
You go to the courses and you pull up a video to play.
It's got many queries it does,
but it's probably 20 milliseconds.
So now it's 15 milliseconds or 14 milliseconds.
But still, to get that much of a speed up
and do basically no work on my part, that's awesome.
And I'm not using a framework like FastAPI
where the other side of that story is also pedantic.
So if you're using FastAPI in Beanie,
which I think is probably a common combination,
both the database side
that gets you the pedantic things is faster,
and then the outbound and inbound processing
that the API itself does is a lot faster
because of pedantic.
And so you get this kind of multiplicative doubling
of the speed on both ends, right?
- Yeah, definitely.
This is, yeah, I think the numbers you just told
about your website,
it's like this time is only about this communication.
I mean, how beats are going from one computer to another.
There is no computations there probably.
- Yeah, it's super, super impressive.
You know, you hear people say,
"Well, Python is not fast enough."
Hmm, that may be true for a few very rare,
you know, extremely high load situations,
but I would bet it's fast enough for most people.
You know, if your website end-to-end processing
is responding in 15 milliseconds,
like, you know, you've got other parts of your system,
like CDNs and an amount of JavaScript you send
to worry about, not your framework you chose, right?
Pretty awesome.
Because of indexes also, don't forget your indexes.
- Yeah, each time when I have any requests
about my things are slow
and probably I have to switch Python to anything else,
usually the problem is about the data model,
not about the processing,
because, you know, people could store things a bit wrongly,
a bit too nested or less nested than it should be,
and et cetera, and yeah, indexes.
- Okay, or yeah, indexes,
or you've done a query where you return a hundred things
and you have huge documents and you only want,
like, say the title and last updated,
but you don't do a projection,
and so you're sending way too much data.
It's like select star instead of select title, comma, date,
you know, something like that, right?
- Yeah, and then sometimes also works
to make protection on the database layer,
like to make some, like, to find maximum elements
or minimum elements and to do this stuff
with the database layer,
but it's not always that efficient.
So you have to do it,
you have to do it in Python,
and you have to do it in Python.
- Yeah, and you have to do it in Python.
- Yeah, what a cool project. So this lets you do really nice modeling of how users interact with your site using Python.
And then what you get is, I don't know if there's any cool pictures that show up on here in terms of the graphs, but you get really nice graphs that show you real time about how many requests per second and different scenarios you get.
And on this one, I'm pretty sure when I upgraded it to Pydantic 2 and ran it again, I'm trying to think of all the variations that you know, there could be something that has changed that I wasn't aware of, like maybe I recorded it on my M1 Mac Mini and then ran it again on my M2 Pro Mac Mini.
So that could affect it by like a little bit as well, like 20%. But I think just so using Beanie and FastAPI and upgrading all those paths to Pydantic 2 and the respective Beanie and FastAPI versions, I think it went 50% or double fast, two times as fast, 100% faster just by making that change.
So that was pretty awesome.
This is great. Yeah, I see this 50% also.
Yeah, and all I did is I just reran pip-tools to get the new versions of everything and reran the load tests and look how much faster they are.
And so that's a real cool example of kind of what I was talking about. So yeah, if you want to see all this stuff in action, check out the MongoDB with Async Python course.
Cool. Well.
Roman, thanks for coming on the show and updating us on Beanie and especially giving us this look into your journey of migrating based on Pydantic 1 to 2. I think that's really cool.
Yeah, thank you very much.
Absolutely. Of course. So before you get out of here, got a PyPI project library to recommend to people, something besides, of course, Beanie and Pydantic, which are pretty awesome and obvious.
So for sure, Motor, I would recommend to use Motor. This is kind of PyMongo, but asynchronous.
Integrates with Async and Await perfectly, which is real, real nice.
Yeah, and if you want to do something more low level than Beanie, then you have to at least meet with Motor because this is a really nice library.
And even after that many years, it's still very actual.
And what else?
Honestly, I don't have anything in my mind currently.
Yeah, Pydantic's good stuff. Awesome.
Okay, I'll throw Locust out there for people. They can check out Locust. That's pretty cool.
If you are going through the same process, you've got code built on Beanie or just Pydantic in general, and you want to see, you know, how does my system respond before and after, Locust is like ridiculously easy to set up.
Run it against your code, pip install, upgrade, run it again, and just see what happens. I think that'll be a really good recommendation too.
Yeah, so final call to action. People want to get started with Beanie. Maybe people out there already using Beanie want to upgrade their code. What do you tell them?
So yeah, just pip install it. Everything would work fine. So just try it. But at least you have to upgrade everything. So please write tests.
Absolutely.
And if something will go wrong, go to my Discord channel and me or other people will answer your questions.
Sounds good. Alright, well, congrats on upgrading Beanie. You must be really happy to have it done.
Yeah, thank you very much.
Yeah, you bet. See you later.
See you.
[ Silence ]